---
layout: page
title: Emotions of London
project-name: london
---
*The Emotions of London* project, led by a research team from Stanford's Literary Lab with support from the CESTA research community, seeks to analyze the ways in which physical space and mental constructions of location have worked to organize and represent changing experiences of London throughout the nineteenth century, a period marked by both the democratization of the novel and rapid urbanization.  Specifically, the project focuses on the emotions associated with particular urban locales in London during the nineteenth century, where “the narrative system becomes complicated, unstable: the city turns into a gigantic roulette table, where helpers and antagonists mix in unpredictable combinations” (Franco Moretti, Atlas of the European Novel, 68). By tracking and mapping fluctuations in emotional spaces, *500 Novels* hopes to search for trends among particular places and arrive at possible explanations for these correlations.  These are questions that are particularly tractable to crowdsourcing.  Issues like whether spatial representations of certain kinds of emotional experience correlate to known class divisions in the city, or whether we can anticipate the rise of what Principal Investigator Franco Moretti has called the “Third London,” a middle-class “wedge” in the city, through changing fictional representations of this region have, can be addressed differently and dynamically by reaching out to the crowd.  Specifically, unlike the previous projects, *500 Novels* seeks to investigate the use of the anonymous crowd, in this case using Amazon’s Mechanical Turk.  By passing along only those passages mentioning particular London locales (though this still leaves more than 15,000 passages for analysis across a wide range of authors, genres, and periods) we will be able to parlay the power of crowdsourcing to annotate both a greater number of passages than an individual researcher could do, as well as far more quickly. This more flexible, atomistic nature of the project has also allowed us to evolve the ways in which we ask the crowd for information with the speed and agility necessary for its success.
